>> Mike North: So I'm gonna show you this,
which is the next level.
We have the ability because
next is a function,
functions take arguments,
we can push things into the iterator.
So the ability to pass
values in is important.
And has anyone here used RX before,
RXJS and observables?
So it's the idea of being able to
push things in and get things out.
This two-way communication
provides the foundation for
a lot of cool reactive
programming patterns.
And the way we have to think of this is,
in this situation we have.
Sorry, I need my Presenter view
to talk through animations.
>> Mike North: So in this situation we
pull an iterator off of
this generator function and
as we know, nothing happens, right.
We have not even begin to execute
the lines of code inside this generator
function.
That doesn't happen until we ask
the iterator for its first value.
That this is the same as when we had that
break point on the first line of that
generator function and
we invoked the generator function.
It returned its iterator, but
we did not stop at that break point.
The game has not started yet, just think
of this as a wrapper around that code.
And when we call next,
that generator function is gonna start
executing code until we hit a point where
we yield out a value.
>> Mike North: So in this case we're
gonna call next and what's gonna
happen is we're going to emit 5.
So and
the reason is we've got last result as 0.
And then think of what's happening here.
This is the first line inside
the block following the while, right.
Last result equals yield
last result plus 5.
So think of it as we're still on the right
hand side of that assignment operation.
And I told you when we pause execution,
imagine as if we're pausing
immediately to the left of the y in yield,
we're pausing right there.
We're sort of caught in
the middle of that assignment
operation.
>> Mike North: And so
that is how we're going to get this 5 out.
So think of it as the yield sucks
in the value to its right and
you're pausing right at the yield.
>> Mike North: So
then we're still paused,
what we're gonna do is
pass the number 35 in
to the next function.
And think of yield as almost
like a portal where we can
push something in to
that next function and
it's gonna pop-out out of
the left side of the yield.
So when we take 35 and
we push it in to the next function.
That 35 is gonna be,
that value is gonna finish
the assignment operation
we paused in the middle of.
And so now last result is gonna be 35.
So when I talk about it like a portal
imagine it like whatever we put into
next is gonna come out of the left side of
yield.
>> Mike North: And so
that'll be the new value of this variable.
>> Mike North: And
then we're going to.
>> Mike North: Print
out last result as 35 because,
as we saw, we're gonna
basically finish the assignment operation,
log the next line out.
Turn around,
go through the y loop again, and
then log out 35+5 is 40, and
now we're paused at the yield again.
And so now we're gonna put 100 in and so
that's what we're feeding
into last result.
And then when we run this,
when we hit play,
what's gonna happen?
>> Mike North: What's the next thing
that's popping up on
the bottom right corner?
>> Speaker 2: Last result equals 100.
>> Mike North: Last result equals 100 and
the new result is?
>> Speaker 2: 105.
>> Mike North: 105.
>> Mike North: It's a very,
very new concept, but this starts to get
really, really, really powerful later on.
>> Mike North: Any questions about this?
I mean,
I had tons of questions about this.
If your question is, why on earth
would I need to do things this way,
I’m getting there.
>> Speaker 3: Is the generator
stuff supported by a dabble polyfill or,
yeah, how?
It is, okay.
>> Mike North: So
the polyfill that is most popular.
Well, first let me say
TypeScript has its own polyfill,
TypeScript has its own support for
generator functions.
Babel brings in a Facebook library
that is called Regenerator.
Regenerator is the polyfill of choice for
this.
Do you wanna see what it looks
like when we transpile a code?
>> Speaker 3: Not really,
[LAUGH] I'm assuming it's
really difficult to read.
[LAUGH]
>> Mike North: Keep in mind the search
maps work pretty well so don't panic.
>> Mike North: Okay.
>> Mike North: We'll just do our simple
one, let my grab the front end
masters snippet that we just made.
So think of it like a closure
wrapped around a case switch where,
essentially, we keep re-entering
the same.
>> Mike North: Switch statement,
but at a different case and
that represents different pieces
of code between yields.
>> Speaker 4: So when Babel does its work,
it's hard coding every possible case for
the sequence.
I mean, it's literally-
>> Mike North: Only because this is a very
literal generator function.
What if I did this?
>> Mike North: Oop, that's gonna throw,
now I've frozen that.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: This is why, no, no.
So this is why having a direct
fill is sometimes dangerous here.
Okay, I don't,
do not finish that URL for me.
Whew, it's just storing
that in local storage here.
So if we've got,
let x equals one while false
[LAUGH].
>> Mike North: Yield x++.
So we'll agree that this x is changing,
this is not every possible value.
>> Mike North: So
what I just want you to see here is,
let's see,
so we begin in case 0
with x is defined by 1,
and then we fall into case 1.
So this would be, basically,
case 0 is the entering case.
That makes sense, right?
And then we fall into case 1.
>> Mike North: This
is our general situation for
how y loops are transfiled
in generator functions.
So this would be the condition where
true is false, think of it that way.
It doesn't make sense right now
because true is never false, but
imagine that this were a dynamic value.
This is, basically,
saying if in this situation that
the condition is no longer met we're done.
So here is the other one that we're
interested in we're returning x++, right.
And the next context is 4,
that, basically,
sends us back into 1, and then x++,
and the next context is 4.
And so the next time we call
the iterator we'll enter here and
then we go back up here.
So we're basically going from 4 to 1,
4 to 1, 4 to 1 and
this is the way it looks like to have
this sequence of infinite length.
If this all looks like tough to
understand code on the right side,
don't worry about it.
But I just want you to understand there's
reason to this and that this is a pretty
ingenious way to do it.
>> Speaker 6: Its actually really clever.
>> Mike North: It's super clever.
It is ridiculously clever.
So and source maps make it so
that you're still stepping through,
you, basically, can do something
called black box the script, right.
You can black box the Babel polyfill and
you'll end up just stepping through your
generator function as we were in
the prompt snippet which is fantastic.
>> Speaker 4: One quick question in chat,
so it does not store
the previous next values?
So the final one would be 145?
>> Mike North: The final one would be 140-
>> Speaker 4: The final.
>> Mike North: There's no final value in
this situation.
>> Speaker 4: All right.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
you might have already covered it so.
>> Mike North: So
it does not start,
that's four minutes ago, so maybe it was.
Okay, so I think we were looking at this,
there we go.
>> Mike North: So, let's see,
it does not store
the previous next value so
the final value would be 145.
We could keep, because we have a while
true here, a yield inside a while true.
There's nothing here,
Rob, that would make this
sequence stop,
there's no final value here.
One thing that is interesting though,
as soon as we stop providing things
to next we're gonna end up with some
unpredictable results.
>> Mike North: Well,
actually it is predictable, but TypeScript
certainly wouldn't be happy with us.
So if we've just called next here without
an argument that would be undefined,
last result would be undefined,
undefined plus five.
Let's see what JavaScript does for that.
I have to actually check
cuz that's a weird one.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Mike North: I'm taking bets.
>> Speaker 2: Five.
>> Mike North: Five?
Yeah, so
things we would have to consider now we
absolutely need to pass the value in.
Good news is, we can define an iterator
that looks like that, right.
With TypeScript we can say,
when you call next give me something.
And now we could get
a compiler error if for
that specific type of iterator we
fail to give it what it needs.
So, hopefully,
that answers your question, Rob.
There is no final value here and
we know that because we, basically,
have a single yield that
is inside an infinite loop.
Where we'll just, as often as you
call next, we will get whatever
we're gonna get.
>> Mike North: Okay.
>> Mike North: My fancy animations,
we get a rerun.
>> Mike North: Okay, so
we can define our own iterable.
Sorry, there we go.
>> Mike North: And
now because a generator
function returns an iterator.
Before we had to do some backflips, right.
Before our defining,
our own iterable looked like this.
>> Mike North: Where we had to say,
we're returning an object that
has a next function on it.
We actually had to really explicitly
define what our iterator looks like.
When we go back to our generator function
case because the generator function,
the value it returns is an iterable,
this looks much cleaner now.
This is much more reasonable,
where we can yield things one by one.
We yield M, I, K,
E if we use the for, of loop and
we get this.
>> Mike North: So now, like I told you,
we were going in the weeds, things look
way more difficult than they need be.
But now we're starting to see, hey,
this is the way it's meant to be done.
This makes a lot more sense,
this is code that's not tangled up
spaghetti.
>> Mike North: And let's
say that we were trying to yield something
that is in and of itself, iterable, right.
I told you arrays, we can already
pull an iterator off of an array,
we demonstrated that.
Strings are like arrays in many ways,
right.
We can use bracket notation to get
an individual character out of a string.
They have a length.
So we can use this syntax yield* and,
basically, you're saying when
you say yield* you're gonna get
the same result as we did before.
In the essence we're saying,
I'm going to give you an iterable and
yield this iterable out one by one by one.
>> Mike North: So
if we were to make this
a little more meaningful,
imagine we had a sequence like this.
Where we have a couple things that
are iterable in and of themselves and
we're sort of stitching together
a few different sequences.
In this case we're gonna just see 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
Because we're saying first, I've got this
array, one by one yield these values out.
And then here's a single value,
yield that out.
And then finish with these things here.
>> Mike North: This
is super cool stuff,
I get really excited talking about
this.
>> Mike North: This
opens up new possibilities for
a clean easy to understand implementations
of things that previously were really,
really hard and really messy.